src/contributing-to-rustic.md, before:

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the `rustic` ecosystem!

We appreciate your help in making this project better.

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
  - [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
  - [Issue and Pull Request Labels](#issue-and-pull-request-labels)
  - [Suggesting Enhancements](#suggesting-enhancements)
  - [Code Style and Formatting](#code-style-and-formatting)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Submitting Pull Requests](#submitting-pull-requests)
    - [Rebasing and other workflows](#rebasing-and-other-workflows)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [License](#license)

## Code of Conduct

Please review and abide by the general Rust Community
[Code of Conduct](https://www.rust-lang.org/policies/code-of-conduct) when
contributing to this project. In the future, we might create our own Code of
Conduct and supplement it at this location.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Bugs

If you find a bug, please open an
[issue on GitHub](https://github.com/rustic-rs/rustic/issues/new/choose) and
provide as much detail as possible. Include steps to reproduce the bug and the
expected behavior.

### Issue and Pull Request labels

Our Issues and Pull Request labels follow the official Rust style:

```text
A - Area
C - Category
D - Diagnostic
E - Call for participation
F - Feature
I - Issue e.g. I-crash
M - Meta
O - Operating systems
P - priorities e.g. P-{low, medium, high, critical}
PG - Project Group
perf - Performance
S - Status e.g. S-{blocked, experimental, inactive}
T - Team relevancy
WG - Working group
```

### Suggesting Enhancements

If you have an idea for an enhancement or a new feature, we'd love to hear it!
Open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/rustic-rs/rustic/issues/new/choose)
and describe your suggestion in detail.

### Code Style and Formatting

We follow the Rust community's best practices for code style and formatting.
Before submitting code changes, please ensure your code adheres to these
guidelines:

- Use `rustfmt` to format your code. You can run it with the following command:

  ```bash
  cargo fmt --all
  ```

- Use `dprint` to format text in markdown, toml, and json. You can install it
  with `cargo install dprint`/`scoop install dprint` and run it with the
  following command in the repository root:

  ```bash
  dprint fmt
  ```

- Write clear and concise code with meaningful, self-describing variable and
  function names. This tells the reader **what** the code does.

- Write clear and consise comments to tell the reader **why** you chose to
  implement it that way and **which** problem it solves.

### Testing

We value code quality and maintainability. If you are adding new features or
making changes, please include relevant unit tests. Run the test suite with:

```bash
cargo test --workspace
```

or check the [testing guide](development/testing.md) for more information which
tools we provide for making developing `rustic` easier.

Make sure all tests pass before submitting your changes. PRs containing tests
have a much higher probability of getting merged (fast).

We expect PRs especially ones that introduce new features to contain tests for
the new code.

Besides that, we welcome PRs which increase the general test coverage of the
project. You can check the
[testing guide](./development/testing.md#code-coverage) for more information.

We appreciate tests in every form: be it *unit*, *doc* or *integration* tests
(chose depending on your use case).

If you want to implement some *fuzzing* or *benchmarking*, that is also highly
appreciated.

### Submitting Pull Requests

To contribute code changes, follow these steps:

1. **Fork** the repository.

2. **Create** a new branch with a descriptive name:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

3. **Check** and **Commit** your changes:

   ```bash
   just pre-commit
   git commit -m "Add your meaningful commit message here"
   ```

4. **Push** your branch to your forked repository:

   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

5. **Open** a Pull Request (PR) to our repository. Please include a detailed
   description of the changes and reference any related issues.

#### `Release early and often!` also applies to pull requests

Consider drafting a Pull request early in the development process, so we can
follow your progress and can give early feedback.

Once your PR is submitted, it will be reviewed by the maintainers. We may
suggest changes or ask for clarifications before merging.

##### IMPORTANT NOTE

Please don't force push commits in your branch, in order to keep commit history
and make it easier for us to see changes between reviews.

Make sure to Allow edits of maintainers (under the text box) in the PR so people
can actually collaborate on things or fix smaller issues themselves.

#### Rebasing and other workflows

(taken from:
[openage on rebasing](https://github.com/SFTtech/openage/blob/master/doc/contributing.md#rebasing))

**Rebasing** is 'moving' your commits to a different parent commit.

In other words: *Cut off* your branch from its tree, and *attach it* somewhere
else.

There's two main applications:

- If you based your work on a older main (so old that stuff can't be
  automatically merged), you can rebase to move your commits to the current
  [upstream](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) main:

```bash
# update the upstream remote to receive new commits
git fetch upstream

# be on your feature branch (you probably are)
git checkout my-awesome-feature

# make backup (you never know, you know?)
git branch my-awesome-feature-backup

# rebase: put your commits on top of upstream's main
git rebase -m upstream/main
```

- If you want to fix an older commit of yours, or merge several commits into a
  single one (**squash** them), rebase interactively. We ***don't*** want to
  have a commit history like this:

  - `add stuff`
  - `fix typo in stuff`
  - `fix compilation`
  - `change stuff a bit`
  - and so on...

##### `rebase` in practice

`git log --graph --oneline` shows your commit history as graph. To make some
changes in that graph, you do an **interactive rebase**:

```sh
git rebase -i -m upstream/main
```

With this command, your new "base" is `upstream/main` and you can then change
any of your branch's commits.

`-i` will open an interactive editor where you can choose actions for each
individual commit:

- re-order commits
- drop commits by deleting their line
- squash/fixup ("meld") your commits
- reword a commit message
- stop rebasing at a commit to edit (`--amend`) it manually

Just follow the messages on screen.

##### Changing commits with `amend` and `fixup`

There's also `git commit --amend` which is a "mini-rebase" that modifies just
the last commit with your current changes by `git add`. It just skips the
creation of a new commit and instead melds the changes into the last one you
made.

If you want to update a single commit in the range
`[upstream/main, current HEAD]` which is not the last commit:

- `edit stuff you wanna change in some previous commit`
- `git add changed_stuff`
- `git commit --fixup $hash_of_commit_to_be_fixed`
- `git rebase --autosquash -i -m upstream/main`

##### Pushing changes

After you have rebased stuff
(["rewritten history"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9lXuZHkOoH8)) that had
already been pushed, git will not accept your pushes because they're not simple
fast-forwards:

- The commit contents and the parent commit have changed as you updated the
  commit, therefore the commit hash changed, too.
  - If somebody used those commits, they will keep a copy and have a hard time
    updating to your updated version (because they "use" the old hashes).
  - Update your pull request branch with your re-written history!

- **force push** is the standard way of overwriting your development work with
  the fixed and mergeable version of your contribution!
  - Why? You changed the commits, so you want the old ones to be deleted!

  You can use any of:
  - `git push origin +my-awesome-feature`
  - `git push origin -f my-awesome-feature`
  - `git push origin --force my-awesome-feature`

Some extra tutorials on `git rebase`:

- [Atlassian's Git Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/)
- [Pro Git book](http://git-scm.com/book)
- `man git-rebase`

## Development Setup

If you want to set up a local development environment, follow the steps in the
[development guide](./development/intro.md) file - which is currently being
worked on.

## License

By contributing to `rustic` or any crates contained in this repository, you
agree that your contributions will be licensed under:

- [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rustic-rs/rustic/main/LICENSE-APACHE)
- [MIT license](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rustic-rs/rustic/main/LICENSE-MIT).

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

docs: add running clippy to contributing (#23)

src/contributing-to-rustic.md, after:

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the `rustic` ecosystem!

We appreciate your help in making this project better.

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
  - [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
  - [Issue and Pull Request Labels](#issue-and-pull-request-labels)
  - [Suggesting Enhancements](#suggesting-enhancements)
  - [Code Style and Formatting](#code-style-and-formatting)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Submitting Pull Requests](#submitting-pull-requests)
    - [Rebasing and other workflows](#rebasing-and-other-workflows)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [License](#license)

## Code of Conduct

Please review and abide by the general Rust Community
[Code of Conduct](https://www.rust-lang.org/policies/code-of-conduct) when
contributing to this project. In the future, we might create our own Code of
Conduct and supplement it at this location.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Bugs

If you find a bug, please open an
[issue on GitHub](https://github.com/rustic-rs/rustic/issues/new/choose) and
provide as much detail as possible. Include steps to reproduce the bug and the
expected behavior.

### Issue and Pull Request labels

Our Issues and Pull Request labels follow the official Rust style:

```text
A - Area
C - Category
D - Diagnostic
E - Call for participation
F - Feature
I - Issue e.g. I-crash
M - Meta
O - Operating systems
P - priorities e.g. P-{low, medium, high, critical}
PG - Project Group
perf - Performance
S - Status e.g. S-{blocked, experimental, inactive}
T - Team relevancy
WG - Working group
```

### Suggesting Enhancements

If you have an idea for an enhancement or a new feature, we'd love to hear it!
Open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/rustic-rs/rustic/issues/new/choose)
and describe your suggestion in detail.

### Code Style and Formatting

We follow the Rust community's best practices for code style and formatting.
Before submitting code changes, please ensure your code adheres to these
guidelines:

- Use `rustfmt` to format your code. You can run it with the following command:

  ```bash
  cargo fmt --all
  ```

- Use `dprint` to format text in markdown, toml, and json. You can install it
  with `cargo install dprint`/`scoop install dprint` and run it with the
  following command in the repository root:

  ```bash
  dprint fmt
  ```

- Use `Clippy` — a collection of lints to catch common mistakes. If you haven't
  installed your Rust toolchain with `rustup`, please
  [install](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/clippy/installation.html) Clippy
  first. Then run Clippy with the following command in the crate root:

  ```bash
  cargo clippy --all -- -D warnings
  ```

- Write clear and concise code with meaningful, self-describing variable and
  function names. This tells the reader **what** the code does.

- Write clear and consise comments to tell the reader **why** you chose to
  implement it that way and **which** problem it solves.

### Testing

We value code quality and maintainability. If you are adding new features or
making changes, please include relevant unit tests. Run the test suite with:

```bash
cargo test --workspace
```

or check the [testing guide](development/testing.md) for more information which
tools we provide for making developing `rustic` easier.

Make sure all tests pass before submitting your changes. PRs containing tests
have a much higher probability of getting merged (fast).

We expect PRs especially ones that introduce new features to contain tests for
the new code.

Besides that, we welcome PRs which increase the general test coverage of the
project. You can check the
[testing guide](./development/testing.md#code-coverage) for more information.

We appreciate tests in every form: be it *unit*, *doc* or *integration* tests
(chose depending on your use case).

If you want to implement some *fuzzing* or *benchmarking*, that is also highly
appreciated.

### Submitting Pull Requests

To contribute code changes, follow these steps:

1. **Fork** the repository.

2. **Create** a new branch with a descriptive name:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

3. **Check** and **Commit** your changes:

   ```bash
   just pre-commit
   git commit -m "Add your meaningful commit message here"
   ```

4. **Push** your branch to your forked repository:

   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

5. **Open** a Pull Request (PR) to our repository. Please include a detailed
   description of the changes and reference any related issues.

#### `Release early and often!` also applies to pull requests

Consider drafting a Pull request early in the development process, so we can
follow your progress and can give early feedback.

Once your PR is submitted, it will be reviewed by the maintainers. We may
suggest changes or ask for clarifications before merging.

##### IMPORTANT NOTE

Please don't force push commits in your branch, in order to keep commit history
and make it easier for us to see changes between reviews.

Make sure to Allow edits of maintainers (under the text box) in the PR so people
can actually collaborate on things or fix smaller issues themselves.

#### Rebasing and other workflows

(taken from:
[openage on rebasing](https://github.com/SFTtech/openage/blob/master/doc/contributing.md#rebasing))

**Rebasing** is 'moving' your commits to a different parent commit.

In other words: *Cut off* your branch from its tree, and *attach it* somewhere
else.

There's two main applications:

- If you based your work on a older main (so old that stuff can't be
  automatically merged), you can rebase to move your commits to the current
  [upstream](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) main:

```bash
# update the upstream remote to receive new commits
git fetch upstream

# be on your feature branch (you probably are)
git checkout my-awesome-feature

# make backup (you never know, you know?)
git branch my-awesome-feature-backup

# rebase: put your commits on top of upstream's main
git rebase -m upstream/main
```

- If you want to fix an older commit of yours, or merge several commits into a
  single one (**squash** them), rebase interactively. We ***don't*** want to
  have a commit history like this:

  - `add stuff`
  - `fix typo in stuff`
  - `fix compilation`
  - `change stuff a bit`
  - and so on...

##### `rebase` in practice

`git log --graph --oneline` shows your commit history as graph. To make some
changes in that graph, you do an **interactive rebase**:

```sh
git rebase -i -m upstream/main
```

With this command, your new "base" is `upstream/main` and you can then change
any of your branch's commits.

`-i` will open an interactive editor where you can choose actions for each
individual commit:

- re-order commits
- drop commits by deleting their line
- squash/fixup ("meld") your commits
- reword a commit message
- stop rebasing at a commit to edit (`--amend`) it manually

Just follow the messages on screen.

##### Changing commits with `amend` and `fixup`

There's also `git commit --amend` which is a "mini-rebase" that modifies just
the last commit with your current changes by `git add`. It just skips the
creation of a new commit and instead melds the changes into the last one you
made.

If you want to update a single commit in the range
`[upstream/main, current HEAD]` which is not the last commit:

- `edit stuff you wanna change in some previous commit`
- `git add changed_stuff`
- `git commit --fixup $hash_of_commit_to_be_fixed`
- `git rebase --autosquash -i -m upstream/main`

##### Pushing changes

After you have rebased stuff
(["rewritten history"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9lXuZHkOoH8)) that had
already been pushed, git will not accept your pushes because they're not simple
fast-forwards:

- The commit contents and the parent commit have changed as you updated the
  commit, therefore the commit hash changed, too.
  - If somebody used those commits, they will keep a copy and have a hard time
    updating to your updated version (because they "use" the old hashes).
  - Update your pull request branch with your re-written history!

- **force push** is the standard way of overwriting your development work with
  the fixed and mergeable version of your contribution!
  - Why? You changed the commits, so you want the old ones to be deleted!

  You can use any of:
  - `git push origin +my-awesome-feature`
  - `git push origin -f my-awesome-feature`
  - `git push origin --force my-awesome-feature`

Some extra tutorials on `git rebase`:

- [Atlassian's Git Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/)
- [Pro Git book](http://git-scm.com/book)
- `man git-rebase`

## Development Setup

If you want to set up a local development environment, follow the steps in the
[development guide](./development/intro.md) file - which is currently being
worked on.

## License

By contributing to `rustic` or any crates contained in this repository, you
agree that your contributions will be licensed under:

- [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rustic-rs/rustic/main/LICENSE-APACHE)
- [MIT license](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rustic-rs/rustic/main/LICENSE-MIT).

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
